# Project Name: The Pandemic Express

Project Description: 

The project is a video exploration of the difficulties that we all face or faced during the pandemic. We have 3 characters: Noora, Ali and Yegor. We all share our experiences with the pandemic and suggest 3 solutions to ourselves e.g. Ali goes on a healthstyle marathon, Noora becomes super productive and Yegor detaches himself from society. We take very extreme measures to implement these ideas and through the process of the movie realize that taking an extreme position is not the solution and we should have a balance. We then return to conclude our opinions between each other and see how we grew through our decisions, leaving the viewer with an open ended question on what they would have done.

The viewer begins with a zoom meeting recording of us complaining about the pandemic and the stress in our lives. Then, as we elaborate on our takes for solutions the viewer is transported to another fold where he or she could choose which character’s storyline to follow (Ali,Noora,Yegor). If they choose Yegor then they would get Yegor’s storyline and conclusion, the same being for other characters. Approaching the end of the storyline the character begins a conversation with a more knowledgeable version of themselves, through which they understand the pitfalls of their methods. As the storyline finishes the viewer is taken back to the zoom meeting where all the characters are talking but only the character you chose shares their conclusion on what was wrong and what they should’ve done.

The experience we wanted to create was one of nostalgia but also a more lighthearted take on what was a very real experience for many of us. As the concept of the video was to tease the different phases of coping with the pandemic, as we made the video, the experience we ended up creating reflected our own memories with the start of the pandemic, and ended up having a more nostalgic note for a time when we were less resigned to the pandemic and more hopeful. However, we also wanted the video to have a message of hope in that we can try to ‘figure this all out’ and ‘beat the pandemic’, but ultimately, what we do on a daily is enough to get us through, because there is no hard and fast rule to getting through a difficult time except to simply go through it. We wanted the user to choose a story as we felt they would be able to choose the character that resonated with them most, allowing them to take away from the project the message that they needed. 

Process:
 
Initially, we planned to make a video about self-care. When discussing this video, we realised that we would rather make a video that’s less about what to do, but more about how to speak to yourself. And from there, we realized that we’d like to have a video where our past selves speak to us. 

The process required a lot of communication between the three of us, as we wanted the framing for each story to be the same. However, we also did want to include our own original styles in the video, to allow the website to have clear cut parts of our personalities integrated into it. As a result, we didn’t regulate the storyboard for each video, but left it up to each of us to create. That resulted in three videos that spoke to the same general theme, without being repetitive.

In order to implement our idea we first needed to record an introductory video where we talk and share our feelings regarding the pandemic on a zoom call. We then changed our clothing and tried to freshen up and record the conclusion as that was also a zoom call. After we had the initial two recordings we began the construction of our website making the interactivity for the whole website work without having the finished product of our videos yet. The interactivity of the website required some planning in order to allow all 3 of us to work on it together. However, through effective communication, we were able to work through the web development process easily and help each other along the way.

As we finished the website interactivity most of us were also finishing up on the storyline editing and post production. We then began cleaning up the website and making a better design for our website, concluding with the finished product.

Reflection/Evaluation: 

------Story-----
Our initial concept was to make a video on how to deal with the pandemic. We didn’t really know how it would work with all of us in different locations but we thought that the idea was interesting. Then we thought that we could include an internal and external struggle in our concept. As we began thinking about the interactivity we thought that it would be interesting to let the person choose the storyline and potentially choose a couple of actions and then lead to a conclusion. However, as we began jotting down approximate time that we could allocate to each part we realized that if we include other actions it would take a lot of filming and editing to make that happen. Something that would become slightly unrealistic. Therefore, we decided to limit the choice to the character. If you like Noora’s take on how to combat the pandemic then you go with her storyline and so on. 

Then, the next issue we faced in our project is the issue of the passage of time. Initially we had the idea to begin our storylines almost as soon as we close the laptop from the zoom call and film it in first-person mode. However, we realized that creates limitations for the different methods we can use during filming and the overall passage of time in our storylines. Therefore, we decided to direct the viewer through information provided in the videos. At the end of the intro we said “let’s give it a shot for a week and comeback to share”. Thus, the viewer would understand what each character would be doing in the next video. Similarly, we couldn’t just make a general conclusion as the intro because the viewer wouldn’t understand why the other characters are sharing their thoughts. Therefore, we had to make the conclusions individual as well and as an extra clarification in the end of our storyline videos we said that “I should probably go tell Ali and Noora” to let the person understand the zoom meeting would follow in the next video.

------Recording/editing-------
Some of the issues that we faced during recording was that one of the group members wasn’t able to get a hold of another phone for his recordings. Meaning that he would have to use the audio from the recording phone and then use that. Therefore, to solve this he made sure to noise reduce every audio recording from the video and then add it in post. Furthermore, we implemented this across all of our recordings.

Also, as we were solo recording and we included a part where we speak with ourselves, we had to make sure to remember all the reactions and view positions of ourselves as we filmed. Because if you film one bit talking to yourself and you look in a different direction then it doesn’t seem genuine. 

For some of the transitions we also had to use markings on the ground so that we could effectively create the transitions in post. We also tried to make the most of our resources at home; asking family members to help with recording, creating makeshift tripods, and finding unique ways to pan the camera. While this was tricky to get done right, ultimately, it pushed our creativity and made us appreciative of the accuracy of filmmaking. As three students who are beginners at figuring out filming and editing in a short time frame, we are happy that we got to create something so personal to us, and something we are proud to present.

----Web Interactivity/Design-----
Most of the web interactivity actually went pretty smoothly, we implemented the JS and css hover transitions and they worked pretty well from the get go.
One of the main difficulties was the constant transitions of one video to another video but we tried to break up the cycle and added a “join meeting” button for the conclusion to further improve the process and break up the monotony for the viewer. 
